docs/en/admins/07_LinuxUpdate.md, before:

# Updating on Linux

This tutorial demonstrates commands for updating FreshRSS. It assumes that your main FreshRSS directory is `/usr/share/FreshRSS`; If you've installed it somewhere else, substitute your path as necessary.

**Note that FreshRSS contains a built-in update system.** It's easier to use if you don't understand the commands that follow. It's available through the web interface of your FreshRSS installation, Administration → Update.

## Pausing automatic feed updates

If [Automatic Feed Updating](08_FeedUpdates.md) has been configured, temporarily suspend the automatic feed updates during the upgrade process.

Before performing the upgrade:

1. cron method: run `sudo crontab -e` and comment out the task
2. systemd method: run `sudo systemctl stop freshrss.timer`

After performing the upgrade:

1. cron method: run `sudo crontab -e` and uncomment the task
2. systemd method: run `sudo systemctl start freshrss.timer`

You may wish to run the cron task or systemd unit (`freshrss.service`) immediately after the upgrade to ensure the automatic feed updates are functioning correctly.

## Using git

**You must have used git to install FreshRSS to use this update method.**

If your local user doesn't have write access to the FreshRSS folder, use a sudo shell (`sudo -s`), prefix the following commands with `sudo `, or switch to an account that does have write access to the folder.

1. Change to your FreshRSS directory
```
cd /usr/share/FreshRSS/
```

2. Fetch the most recent code from GitHub
```
git fetch --all
```

3. Discard manual changes and delete manual additions
```
git reset --hard
git clean -f -d
```

Note: If you wish to keep your changes, it's better to [create a pull request](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/compare) or [an extension](../developers/03_Backend/05_Extensions.md).

4. Update FreshRSS
```
git checkout master
git pull
git checkout $(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)
```

Note: If you want to use the rolling release, the last command is optional.

5. (optional) Make sure you use the correct version
```
git status
```

The command should tell you the tag that you're using. It must be the same as the one associated with [the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/releases/latest). If you use the rolling release, it should tell you that your `master` branch is up to date with `origin`.

6. Delete the file that triggers the install wizard
```
rm data/do-install.txt
```

7. Re-set correct permissions so that your web server can access the files
```
chown -R :www-data . && chmod -R g+r . && chmod -R g+w ./data/
```

## Using the Zip archive

If your local user doesn't have write access to the FreshRSS folder, use a sudo shell (`sudo -s`), prefix the following commands with `sudo `, or switch to an account that does have write access to the folder.

1. Change to your FreshRSS directory
```
cd /usr/share/FreshRSS/
```

2. Get the link to the Zip archive for [the latest release](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/releases/latest). It should be something like `https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/1.15.3.zip` (the numbers can change). If you want to use the rolling release, the link is `https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/master.zip`

3. Download and unzip the update file
```
wget -O freshrss.zip https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/1.15.3.zip
unzip freshrss.zip
```

3. Overwrite all your existing files with the new ones
```
cp -R FreshRSS-*/* .
```

4. Re-set permissions
```
chown -R :www-data . && chmod -R g+r . && chmod -R g+w ./data/
```

5. Clean up the FreshRSS directory by deleting the downloaded zip, the file forcing the setup wizard and the temporary directory
```
rm -f freshrss.zip
rm -f data/do-install.txt
rm -rf FreshRSS-*/
```

Commit message:

Quick update the doc for master renaming to edge

docs/en/admins/07_LinuxUpdate.md, after:

# Updating on Linux

This tutorial demonstrates commands for updating FreshRSS. It assumes that your main FreshRSS directory is `/usr/share/FreshRSS`; If you've installed it somewhere else, substitute your path as necessary.

**Note that FreshRSS contains a built-in update system.** It's easier to use if you don't understand the commands that follow. It's available through the web interface of your FreshRSS installation, Administration → Update.

## Pausing automatic feed updates

If [Automatic Feed Updating](08_FeedUpdates.md) has been configured, temporarily suspend the automatic feed updates during the upgrade process.

Before performing the upgrade:

1. cron method: run `sudo crontab -e` and comment out the task
2. systemd method: run `sudo systemctl stop freshrss.timer`

After performing the upgrade:

1. cron method: run `sudo crontab -e` and uncomment the task
2. systemd method: run `sudo systemctl start freshrss.timer`

You may wish to run the cron task or systemd unit (`freshrss.service`) immediately after the upgrade to ensure the automatic feed updates are functioning correctly.

## Using git

**You must have used git to install FreshRSS to use this update method.**

If your local user doesn't have write access to the FreshRSS folder, use a sudo shell (`sudo -s`), prefix the following commands with `sudo `, or switch to an account that does have write access to the folder.

1. Change to your FreshRSS directory

```sh
cd /usr/share/FreshRSS/
```

2. Fetch the most recent code from GitHub

```sh
git fetch --all
```

3. Discard manual changes and delete manual additions

```sh
git reset --hard
git clean -f -d
```

Note: If you wish to keep your changes, it's better to [create a pull request](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/compare) or [an extension](../developers/03_Backend/05_Extensions.md).

4. Update FreshRSS

```sh
git checkout edge
git pull
git checkout $(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)
```

Note: If you want to use the rolling release, the last command is optional.

5. (optional) Make sure you use the correct version

```sh
git status
```

The command should tell you the tag that you're using. It must be the same as the one associated with [the latest release on GitHub](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/releases/latest). If you use the rolling release, it should tell you that your `edge` branch is up to date with `origin`.

6. Delete the file that triggers the install wizard

```sh
rm data/do-install.txt
```

7. Re-set correct permissions so that your web server can access the files

```sh
chown -R :www-data . && chmod -R g+r . && chmod -R g+w ./data/
```

## Using the Zip archive

If your local user doesn't have write access to the FreshRSS folder, use a sudo shell (`sudo -s`), prefix the following commands with `sudo`, or switch to an account that does have write access to the folder.

1. Change to your FreshRSS directory

```sh
cd /usr/share/FreshRSS/
```

2. Get the link to the Zip archive for [the latest release](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/releases/latest): [`https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/latest.zip`](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/latest.zip). If you want to use the rolling release, the link is [`https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/edge.zip`](https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/edge.zip).

3. Download and unzip the update file

```sh
wget -O freshrss.zip https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/archive/latest.zip
unzip freshrss.zip
```

3. Overwrite all your existing files with the new ones

```sh
cp -R FreshRSS-*/* .
```

4. Re-set permissions

```sh
chown -R :www-data . && chmod -R g+r . && chmod -R g+w ./data/
```

5. Clean up the FreshRSS directory by deleting the downloaded zip, the file forcing the setup wizard and the temporary directory

```sh
rm -f freshrss.zip
rm -f data/do-install.txt
rm -rf FreshRSS-*/
```
