docs/en/admins/09_AccessControl.md, before:

# Access Control

FreshRSS offers three methods of Access control: Form Authentication using Javascript, HTTP based Authentication, or an uncontrolled state with no authentication required.

## Form Authentication

Form Authentication requires the use of Javascript. It will work on any supported version of PHP, but version 5.5 or newer is recommended (see footnote 1 in [prerequisites](02_Prerequisites.md) for the reason why).

This option requires nothing more than selecting Form Authentication during installation.

## HTTP Authentication

You may also choose to use HTTP Authentication provided by your web server.[^1]

If you choose to use this option, create a `./p/i/.htaccess` file with a matching `.htpasswd` file.

## No Authentication
Not using authentication on your server is dangerous, as anyone with access to your server would be able to make changes as an admin. It is never advisable to not use any form of authentication, but **never** chose this option on a server that is able to be accessed outside of your home network.

## Hints

You can switch your authentication method at any time by editing the `./data/config.php` file, on the line that begins `'auth_type'`.

[^1]: See [the Apache documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/trunk/howto/auth.html)

Commit message:

Document HTTP auth auto-registration

docs/en/admins/09_AccessControl.md, after:

# Access Control

FreshRSS offers three methods of Access control: Form Authentication using Javascript, HTTP based Authentication, or an uncontrolled state with no authentication required.

## Form Authentication

Form Authentication requires the use of Javascript. It will work on any supported version of PHP, but version 5.5 or newer is recommended (see footnote 1 in [prerequisites](02_Prerequisites.md) for the reason why).

This option requires nothing more than selecting Form Authentication during installation.

## HTTP Authentication

You may also choose to use HTTP Authentication provided by your web server.[^1]

If you choose to use this option, create a `./p/i/.htaccess` file with a matching `.htpasswd` file.

You can also use any authentication backend as long as your web server exposes the authenticated user through the `REMOTE_USER` variable.

By default, users must already be registered to authenticate.
You can enable auto-registration of new users by setting `http_auth_auto_register` to `true` in the configuration file.
When using auto-registration, you can optionally use the `http_auth_auto_register_email_field` to specify the name of a web server
variable containing the email address of the authenticated user (e.g. `REMOTE_USER_EMAIL`).

## No Authentication
Not using authentication on your server is dangerous, as anyone with access to your server would be able to make changes as an admin. It is never advisable to not use any form of authentication, but **never** chose this option on a server that is able to be accessed outside of your home network.

## Hints

You can switch your authentication method at any time by editing the `./data/config.php` file, on the line that begins `'auth_type'`.

[^1]: See [the Apache documentation](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/trunk/howto/auth.html)
