docs/en/users/04_Subscriptions.md, before:

# Adding a feed

 1. To add a feed, copy the URL of its RSS or Atom file (for instance, the Framablog RSS URL is `https://framablog.org/feed/`). FreshRSS is able to automatically find the address of the feed for websites that are declaring it in a standard way.
 2. On FreshRSS, click “Subscriptions management”.
 3. Paste the URL in “Add an RSS feed” below the page title.
 4. (optional): You can select the category for your feed. By default, it will be in “Uncategorized”.

# Import and export
See [SQLite export/import]( https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/tree/master/cli) as an alternative.

## Export

 1. To export your list of feeds, go to “Subscriptions management”.
 2. Click on “Import / export”
 3. You can select for your export:
    1. the list of feeds
    2. labelled articles
    3. favourite articles
    4. and finally, you can select feeds you want to export (by default, all feeds are selected)
 4. Click on “export”.

 ## Import
 
  1. Go to the page “Import / export”.
  2. Click on “Browse” and select your OPML or archive file on your computer.
  3. Click on “Import”
  
# Use bookmarklet

Bookmarklets are little scripts that you can execute to perform various tasks. FreshRSS offers a bookmarklet for subscribing to newsfeeds.

 1. Open “Subscriptions management”.
 2. Click on “Subscription tools”.
 3. Drag the “Subscribe” button to your bookmark toolbar or right click and choose your browser’s “Bookmark link” action.

# Feed management

You can manage your feeds within different categories. A feed cannot be in multiple categories.

 1. Open “Subscriptions management”.
 2. You can add a category:
    1. Type the name of your category in “New category”
    2. Click on “Submit”
 3. You can move a feed on the category you want with drag & drop
 4. (optional): If you want the articles of a feed to be visible solely within its category and not in the main view, in the “Visibility” option, select “Show in its category”.

Commit message:

Add section for text import (#3304)
See #663

docs/en/users/04_Subscriptions.md, after:

# Adding a feed

 1. To add a feed, copy the URL of its RSS or Atom file (for instance, the Framablog RSS URL is `https://framablog.org/feed/`). FreshRSS is able to automatically find the address of the feed for websites that are declaring it in a standard way.
 2. On FreshRSS, click “Subscriptions management”.
 3. Paste the URL in “Add an RSS feed” below the page title.
 4. (optional): You can select the category for your feed. By default, it will be in “Uncategorized”.

# Import and export
See [SQLite export/import]( https://github.com/FreshRSS/FreshRSS/tree/master/cli) as an alternative.

## Export

 1. To export your list of feeds, go to “Subscriptions management”.
 2. Click on “Import / export”
 3. You can select for your export:
    1. the list of feeds
    2. labelled articles
    3. favourite articles
    4. and finally, you can select feeds you want to export (by default, all feeds are selected)
 4. Click on “export”.

 ## Import
 
  1. Go to the page “Import / export”.
  2. Click on “Browse” and select your OPML or archive file on your computer.
  3. Click on “Import”

> **Important**: you can not import directly a list of feeds from a text file.
> You need to convert it beforehand to _OPML_.
> Here is some tools you could use :
> - [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/) available for most systems,
> - [OPML generator](https://opml-gen.ovh/) available online,
> - [txt2opml](https://alterfiles.com/convert/txt/opml) available online.
  
# Use bookmarklet

Bookmarklets are little scripts that you can execute to perform various tasks. FreshRSS offers a bookmarklet for subscribing to newsfeeds.

 1. Open “Subscriptions management”.
 2. Click on “Subscription tools”.
 3. Drag the “Subscribe” button to your bookmark toolbar or right click and choose your browser’s “Bookmark link” action.

# Feed management

You can manage your feeds within different categories. A feed cannot be in multiple categories.

 1. Open “Subscriptions management”.
 2. You can add a category:
    1. Type the name of your category in “New category”
    2. Click on “Submit”
 3. You can move a feed on the category you want with drag & drop
 4. (optional): If you want the articles of a feed to be visible solely within its category and not in the main view, in the “Visibility” option, select “Show in its category”.
