
# Display

## Language

At the moment, FreshRSS is available in French and English. After you confirm your choice, the whole interface will be displayed in the chosen language.

There are parts of FreshRSS that are not translated and are not intended to be translated. For now, the logs visible in the application as well as the one generated by the script of automatic update are part of it.

## Theme

In matters of taste and color, there can be no disputes. This is why FreshRSS offers six official themes:

 * *Blue Lagoon* by **Mister aiR**
 * *Dark* by **AD**
 * *Flat design* by **Marien Fressinaud**
 * *Origine* by **Marien Fressinaud**
 * *Pafat* by **Plopoyop**
 * *Screwdriver* by **Mister aiR**

If none of these are suitable for you, it is always possible to create your own.

To select a theme, simply scroll through the themes and select one that strikes your fancy. After confirmation, the theme will be applied to the interface.

## Content width

There are some who prefer short lines of text while others prefer to maximize the available screen space. To satisfy the maximum number of people it is possible to choose the width of the displayed content. There are four settings available:

 * **Fine** which displays content up to 550 pixels
 * **Medium** which displays content up to 800 pixels
 * **Large** which displays content up to 1000 pixels
 * **No limit** which displays the content on 100% of the available space

## Article icons

**TODO**

## HTML5 notification timout

After the automatic updates of the feeds, FreshRSS uses the HTML5 notification API to notify of the arrival of new articles.

The duration of this notification can be set. By default, the value is 0.

# Reading

**TODO**

# Archiving

**TODO**

# Sharing

**TODO**

# Shortcuts

**TODO**

# User queries

**TODO**

# Users

**TODO**

## Authentication methods

### HTTP Authentication (Apache)

 1. User control is based on the `.htaccess` file.
 2. It is best practice to place the `.htaccess` file in the `./i/` subdirectory so the API and other third party services can work.
 3. If you want to limit all access to registered users only, place the file in the FreshRSS directory itself or in a parent directory. Note that PubsubHubbub and API will not work!
 4. Example `.htaccess` file for a user "marie":

```
AuthUserFile /home/marie/repertoire/.htpasswd
AuthGroupFile /dev/null
AuthName "Chez Marie"
AuthType Basic
Require user marie
```

More information can be found in the [Apache documentation](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/trunk/howto/auth.html#gettingitworking).

# Subscription management

## Information

**TODO**

## Archivage

**TODO**

## Login

**TODO**

## Advanced

### Retrieve a truncated stream

The question comes up regularly, so we will try to clarify here how one can retrieve a truncated RSS feed with FreshRSS. Please note that the process is absolutely not "user friendly", but it works :)

Also know that this way you are generating much more traffic to the originating sites and that they might block you accordingly. The performance of FreshRSS is also negatively affected because you have to fetch the full article content one by one. So it's a feature to use sparingly!

What is meant by "CSS path of articles on the original site" actually corresponds to the "path" consisting of IDs and classes (which in html, matches the id and class attributes) to retrieve only the interesting part that corresponds to the article. Ideally, this path starts with an id (which is unique to the page).

#### Example 1: Rue89

To find this path, you must go to the address of one of the truncated articles (for example http://www.rue89.com/2013/10/15/prof-maths-jai-atteint-lextase-dihn-pedagogie-inversee-246635). You must then look for the "block" of HTML corresponding to the content of the article (in the source code!).

We find here that the block that encompasses only the content of the article is ```<div class="content clearfix">```. We will only use the ".content" class here. Nevertheless, as said above, it is best to start the path with an id. If we go back to the parent block, this is the block ```<div id="article">``` and that's perfect! The path will be ```#article .content```.

#### Add the corresponding classes to the articles CSS path on the feed configuration page. Examples:

*  Rue89: ```#article .content```
*  PCINpact: ```#actu_content```
*  Lesnumériques: ```article#body div.text.clearfix```
