docs/en/index.md, before:

![FreshRSS logo](img/logo_freshrss.png)

# FreshRSS manual (English)

FreshRSS is an RSS aggregator and reader. It allows you to read and follow several news websites at a glance without the need to browse from one website to another.

## Features

FreshRSS has a lot of features including:

* RSS and Atom aggregation
* Mark article as favorite if you liked it or if you want to read it later
* Filter and search functionality helps to easily find articles
* Statistics to show you the publishing frequency all the websites you follow
* Import/export of your feeds into OPML format
* Several themes created by the community
* "Google Reader"-like API to connect Android applications
* The application is "responsive," which means it adapts to small screens so you can bring articles in your pocket
* Self-hosted: the code is free (under AGPL3 licence), so you can host your own instance of FreshRSS
* Multi-user, so you can also host for your friends and family
* And a lot more!

## Manual Chapters

This documentation is split into different sections:

* [User documentation](./users/02_First_steps.md), where you can discover all the possibilities offered by FreshRSS
* [Administrator documentation](./admins/01_Index.md) for detailed installation and maintenance related tasks
* [Developer documentation](./developers/01_Index.md) to guide you in the source code of FreshRSS and to help you if you want to contribute
* [Contributor guidelines](./contributing.md) for those who want to help improve FreshRSS

## Demo

The official demo of FreshRSS is available under [https://demo.freshrss.org/](https://demo.freshrss.org/).

Another chance to try out, but not official supported by FreshRSS: The application is listed on Softaculous [https://www.softaculous.com/apps/rss/FreshRSS](https://www.softaculous.com/apps/rss/FreshRSS).

## Licence

FreshRSS is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0.

Commit message:

added: username+pw for demo login

docs/en/index.md, after:

![FreshRSS logo](img/logo_freshrss.png)

# FreshRSS manual (English)

FreshRSS is an RSS aggregator and reader. It allows you to read and follow several news websites at a glance without the need to browse from one website to another.

## Features

FreshRSS has a lot of features including:

* RSS and Atom aggregation
* Mark article as favorite if you liked it or if you want to read it later
* Filter and search functionality helps to easily find articles
* Statistics to show you the publishing frequency all the websites you follow
* Import/export of your feeds into OPML format
* Several themes created by the community
* "Google Reader"-like API to connect Android applications
* The application is "responsive," which means it adapts to small screens so you can bring articles in your pocket
* Self-hosted: the code is free (under AGPL3 licence), so you can host your own instance of FreshRSS
* Multi-user, so you can also host for your friends and family
* And a lot more!

## Manual Chapters

This documentation is split into different sections:

* [User documentation](./users/02_First_steps.md), where you can discover all the possibilities offered by FreshRSS
* [Administrator documentation](./admins/01_Index.md) for detailed installation and maintenance related tasks
* [Developer documentation](./developers/01_Index.md) to guide you in the source code of FreshRSS and to help you if you want to contribute
* [Contributor guidelines](./contributing.md) for those who want to help improve FreshRSS

## Demo

The official demo of FreshRSS is available under [https://demo.freshrss.org/](https://demo.freshrss.org/). 

Login credentials: 

* Username: demo
* Password: demodemo

Another chance to try out, but not official supported by FreshRSS: The application is listed on Softaculous [https://www.softaculous.com/apps/rss/FreshRSS](https://www.softaculous.com/apps/rss/FreshRSS).

## Licence

FreshRSS is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0.
